Madam Speaker, Madam Vice President, our First Lady and Second Gentleman. Members of Congress and the Cabinet. Justices of the Supreme Court. My fellow Americans.  

Six days ago, Russia’s Vladimir Putin sought to shake the foundations of the free world thinking he could make it bend to his menacing ways. But he badly miscalculated. 

He thought he could roll into Ukraine and the world would roll over. Instead he met a wall of strength he never imagined. 

He met the Ukrainian people. 

From President Zelenskyy to every Ukrainian, their fearlessness, their courage, their determination, inspires the world. 

Groups of citizens blocking tanks with their bodies. Everyone from students to retirees teachers turned soldiers defending their homeland. 

In this struggle as President Zelenskyy said in his speech to the European Parliament “Light will win over darkness.” The Ukrainian Ambassador to the United States is here tonight. 

Let each of us here tonight in this Chamber send an unmistakable signal to Ukraine and to the world. 

Please rise if you are able and show that, Yes, we the United States of America stand with the Ukrainian people. 

Putin may circle Kyiv with tanks, but he will never gain the hearts and souls of the Ukrainian people. 

He will never extinguish their love of freedom. He will never weaken the resolve of the free world. 

We meet tonight in an America that has lived through two of the hardest years this nation has ever faced. 

We’re done talking about infrastructure weeks. 

We’re going to have an infrastructure decade. 

It is going to transform America and put us on a path to win the economic competition of the 21st Century that we face with the rest of the world—particularly with China.  

As I’ve told Xi Jinping, it is never a good bet to bet against the American people. 

We’ll create good jobs for millions of Americans, modernizing roads, airports, ports, and waterways all across America. 

And we’ll do it all to withstand the devastating effects of the climate crisis and promote environmental justice. 

We’ll build a national network of 500,000 electric vehicle charging stations, begin to replace poisonous lead pipes—so every child—and every American—has clean water to drink at home and at school, provide affordable high-speed internet for every American—urban, suburban, rural, and tribal communities. 

4,000 projects have already been announced. 

This is where Intel, the American company that helped build Silicon Valley, is going to build its $20 billion semiconductor “mega site”. 

Up to eight state-of-the-art factories in one place. 10,000 new good-paying jobs. 

Some of the most sophisticated manufacturing in the world to make computer chips the size of a fingertip that power the world and our everyday lives. 

Smartphones. The Internet. Technology we have yet to invent. 

But that’s just the beginning. 

Intel’s CEO, Pat Gelsinger, who is here tonight, told me they are ready to increase their investment from  
$20 billion to $100 billion. 

That would be one of the biggest investments in manufacturing in American history. 

And all they’re waiting for is for you to pass this bill. 

So let’s not wait any longer. Send it to my desk. I’ll sign it.  

And we will really take off. 

And Intel is not alone. 

There’s something happening in America. 

Just look around and you’ll see an amazing story. 

The rebirth of the pride that comes from stamping products “Made In America.” The revitalization of American manufacturing.   

Companies are choosing to build new factories here, when just a few years ago, they would have built them overseas. 

That’s what is happening. Ford is investing $11 billion to build electric vehicles, creating 11,000 jobs across the country. 

GM is making the largest investment in its history—$7 billion to build electric vehicles, creating 4,000 jobs in Michigan. 

All told, we created 369,000 new manufacturing jobs in America just last year. 

Powered by people I’ve met like JoJo Burgess, from generations of union steelworkers from Pittsburgh, who’s here with us tonight. 

As Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown says, “It’s time to bury the label “Rust Belt.” 

It’s time. 

But with all the bright spots in our economy, record job growth and higher wages, too many families are struggling to keep up with the bills.  

Inflation is robbing them of the gains they might otherwise feel. 

I get it. That’s why my top priority is getting prices under control. 

Look, our economy roared back faster than most predicted, but the pandemic meant that businesses had a hard time hiring enough workers to keep up production in their factories. 

The pandemic also disrupted global supply chains. 

When factories close, it takes longer to make goods and get them from the warehouse to the store, and prices go up. 

Look at cars. 

Last year, there weren’t enough semiconductors to make all the cars that people wanted to buy. 

And guess what, prices of automobiles went up. 

So—we have a choice. 

One way to fight inflation is to drive down wages and make Americans poorer.  

I have a better plan to fight inflation. 

Lower your costs, not your wages. 

Make more cars and semiconductors in America. 

More infrastructure and innovation in America. 

More goods moving faster and cheaper in America. 

More jobs where you can earn a good living in America. 

And instead of relying on foreign supply chains, let’s make it in America. 

Economists call it “increasing the productive capacity of our economy.” 

I call it building a better America. 

For more than two years, COVID-19 has impacted every decision in our lives and the life of the nation. 

And I know you’re tired, frustrated, and exhausted. 

But I also know this. 

Because of the progress we’ve made, because of your resilience and the tools we have, tonight I can say  
we are moving forward safely, back to more normal routines.  

We’ve reached a new moment in the fight against COVID-19, with severe cases down to a level not seen since last July.  

Just a few days ago, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention—the CDC—issued new mask guidelines. 

Under these new guidelines, most Americans in most of the country can now be mask free.   

And based on the projections, more of the country will reach that point across the next couple of weeks. 

Thanks to the progress we have made this past year, COVID-19 need no longer control our lives.  

I know some are talking about “living with COVID-19”. Tonight – I say that we will never just accept living with COVID-19. 

We will continue to combat the virus as we do other diseases. And because this is a virus that mutates and spreads, we will stay on guard. 

Here are four common sense steps as we move forward safely.  

First, stay protected with vaccines and treatments. We know how incredibly effective vaccines are. If you’re vaccinated and boosted you have the highest degree of protection. 

Second – we must prepare for new variants. Over the past year, we’ve gotten much better at detecting new variants. 

Third – we can end the shutdown of schools and businesses. We have the tools we need. 

Fourth, we will continue vaccinating the world.     

We’ve sent 475 Million vaccine doses to 112 countries, more than any other nation. 

And we won’t stop. 

We have lost so much to COVID-19. Time with one another. And worst of all, so much loss of life. 

Let’s use this moment to reset. Let’s stop looking at COVID-19 as a partisan dividing line and see it for what it is: A God-awful disease.  

Let’s stop seeing each other as enemies, and start seeing each other for who we really are: Fellow Americans.  

We can’t change how divided we’ve been. But we can change how we move forward—on COVID-19 and other issues we must face together. 